It turns out that Naive Bayes has a very
close relationship to language modeling.
Let's see how that is.
We'll start by looking at the generative
model for multinominal Naive Bayes.
So imagine I have a class,
let's say it's China.
And imagine that we were randomly
generating a document about China.
So we might start by saying
the first word, X of 1 is Shanghai,
and the second word is and, and
the third one is Shenzhen, and
the fourth word is issue, and
the fifth word is bonds, and so on.
We've generated a random
little document about China.
So, what this generative model shows you
is that each word is an independently
generated word from a class,
generated with a certain probability.
We have a little set of probabilities
we're keeping for each word.
Let's think about that.
Now, in general, Naive Bayes classifiers
can use all sorts of features,
URLs email addresses,
we'll talk about that for spam detection.
But if in the previous slide, we just
used the word features, and if we use
all the words in the text, then it turns
out that this generative model for
Naive Bayes gives it an important
similarity to language modeling.
Naive Bayes turns out to be
a kind of language model.
And in particular,
each class in a Naive Bayes classifier,
each class is a unigram language model.
And the way we can think about that is
each word in a Naive Bayes classifier,
the likelihood term, assigns a word the
probability of the word, given the class.
And a sentence in
a Naive Bayes classifier,
since we're multiplying together
a sentence or even a whole document,
the probabilities of all the words,
we compute the probability
of a sentence given a class.
We're just multiplying
together all the words,
the likelihoods of all
the words in the class.
So let's see how that works.
Imagine that we have the class positive.
And we have our likelihoods,
the likelihood of I given positive,
that's P of I given positive, and
we have P of love given positive,
and we have P of this given positive,
and so on.
And P of I given positive is 0.1, and P
of love given positive is 0.1, and so on.
Okay, so
here's our Naive Bayes classifier.
Well, we can think of that
exactly as a language model.
We have a sequence of words, I generate
some words, I love this fun film,
and Naive Bayes is assigning that
sequence of words a set of probabilities,
one for each word from the class.
0.1, 0.1, 0.5 and so on.
So that if we multiply all these
together we can get the probability
of the sentence.
So Naive Bayes,
each class is just a unigram language
model conditioned on the class.
So when we ask the question which
class assigns a higher probability
to a document?
It's like we're running two
separate language models.
So here I've shown you two separate
language models, the positive class and
the negative class.
And each one has separate probabilities.
So here's the probability
of I given negative.
And here's probability
of I given positive.
I guess people are more likely to use
the word I when they don't like something.
And now if we take a particular sentence,
I love this fun film, and
we say what's the probability of this
sequence according to our first model?
And what's the probability
according to our second model?
Each one assigns a probability for
each word.
That's the Naive Bayes likelihoods.
We can multiply them all together.
And we can show that if we multiply them
all together, you can sort of see from
inspection that the positive probability
multiplied together are going to be,
I mean, because of this one and
this one, are going to be much higher
than the negative probabilities.
So you can think of Naive Bayes as
each class is a separate class
condition language model.
We're going to run each language model to
compute the likelihood of a test sentence,
and we'll just pick
whichever language model
has the higher probability as the class
which is the more likely class.
So that's the close relationship between
Naive Bayes and language modeling.